In this lesson what we're gonna do is going to look at our regression coefficients are theta is in more
detail.
So far we've discussed how to interpret the value of our coefficients in both the original linear model
and the log linear model.
After our data transformations the thing is if we're looking to predict house prices we're not just
going to be interested in the sign and the size of our coefficients.
We're also going to be interested in their significance just because there's a number next to a particular
feature does not mean that this feature has much explanatory power.
Just because there's a number here doesn't mean that this feature is actually significant.
Remember how we talked about how it doctor checks your vital stats of regression coefficients vital
stat that tells you about its significance.
It's called the p value.
Now most academic research papers that you come across analyze the significance of their findings using
this metric of p values.
And here's how this metric is typically used.
If the p value is less than a certain threshold that threshold being zero point zero five then the result
is deemed statistically significant and when the p value is greater than zero point zero five then this
result is considered to be not statistically significant.
This threshold of zero point zero five is kind of where the consensus amongst academics is regarding
significance and for better or was there's a little bit of a cult around this particular value when
it comes to calculating the p values.
The psychic learns linear regression model isn't actually much help.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to look beyond the cycle learn module to calculate a hard statistics
for our regression.
We're gonna go beyond the simple linear regression provided by our machine learning module in these
lessons we're gonna be looking at some detailed statistics of our module.
And this is why we're gonna be importing a different python module to take us further here and this
python module is called stats model.
Now let's add a section heading somewhere to change itself to markdown and put a section heading here
that reads p values and evaluating coefficients what we're gonna be doing next is we're gonna be using
the stats model module to run our linear regression and we will run it so that we get the same results
as we would with psychic learn.
However we will be able to use this python stats model module to pull up detailed statistics that we
can't easily get with cyclone.
The first thing that we need to do of course is import our stats model.
So we're gonna go to the top of our notebook and in our first cell we're gonna say import stats models
dot API as s and then I'm going to hit shift enter on the cell and what I see when I do this is there
is a deprecation warning here.
This deprecation warning refers to my stats models module and what it's saying is that at the time of
recording this module is still using a component that is outdated so it's using this Panda's data tools
component which is outdated or deprecated now I'm really not too concerned about this for two reasons.
One is that we're not gonna be using any functionality to do with dates from the stats models API and
two is that these stats models API will also be updated by the people who created it and what they will
do is they will make sure that it doesn't break and that it's maintained in good working order.
So by the time you're running this you may or may not see this deprecation warning.
Now let's run our regression with this new module.
The thing to note is that in order to make our regression tie out with socket learn we're going to have
to add an intercept because as you can see there is an intercept here from our regression with cycle
line.
So what I'm going to do is take our features from the training data set and add an intercept cell right
S.M. dot and underscore constant parentheses x on the school train and what I'll do is I'll store this
modified data frame in a new variable.
So what I'm gonna say is X on the score include constant equals S.M. don't add on the score constant
parentheses x on a score train.
Now what we can do is call on the stats models over less function which will give us back a model object
which we can then use to fit our regression.
So I want to see model is equal to S m dot or less parentheses y on a school train comma X on a score
include on a score constant.
What we're doing here is we're calling the old s function o Atlas stands for ordinary least squares
and just like Sackett learn.
This gives us a linear regression model which we're storing here has arguments.
We've provided our target values and our features and these features include this constant that we've
added.
Now we can use the stats models API to fit our regression fitting our regression will give us some results.
So I'll create a new variable called results and set that equal to model don't fit.
In other words calling the fit method on the model will return to us our regression results.
So the question is how do we take a look at these results.
For starters let's see if we can print out the coefficients like we have here to get these coefficients.
We'll use the results parameters attribute.
So results dot grams and shift and to show us the coefficients.
So here they are and these values tie out with what we saw in cyclone comment this out.
And now we can take a look at the p values that I keep harping on about to show these.
We also use our results object put a dot after it and access the p values attribute some results like
p values and shift into will show us the p values for all r coefficients.
I don't think this is formatted particularly nicely so when want to do is I'm going to comment this
out again and both of these two series into a data frame.
So with PD dot data frame parentheses curly braces single quotes QF colon results dot Grams comma single
quotes p value colon results dot p values.
We can look at our coefficients and their p values formatted nicely side by side.
Check it out.
Now this is starting to look pretty good but you know what.
I found these p values really really hard to read in scientific notation.
So when I want to do this I'm going around the I'm going to come up here where I'm creating our data
frame and when I called the round function so round open parentheses closing parentheses before the
curly brace and then comma and then a number of decimals that we should round to.
So I'm going to go with 3 and refresh our output.
Now let's talk about how to interpret these results.
Well remember the rule of thumb that any p value over zero point zero five is not significant.
In our case two of our features failed this test namely the Indus feature and our age feature.
These two features do not appear to add much additional information.
All the others are indeed statistically significant.
Now let's make a note of this for later because maybe maybe we could remove the Indus and the H features
from our model in the next lesson.
We're going to discuss a potential problem in our regression.
Remember how we had high correlations between our features in the next lesson.
We're going to check formally if our regression suffers from the problem of multicolored the charity.